Arduino-based Secure Vehicle Access System (ASVAS)
Description

The Arduino-based Secure Vehicle Access System (ASVAS) is designed to provide a secure and efficient way of controlling access to a vehicle. This system uses a keypad for inputting access codes and an LCD display for user interaction. The primary functionalities include setting master and guest passwords, starting the vehicle simulation via a relay, and providing feedback on access attempts.
Features

    Secure Password Handling: Stores hashed passwords for security.
    Master and Guest Access: Allows two levels of access with separate passwords.
    Relay Control: Simulates vehicle starting mechanism.
    Attempt Tracking: Keeps track of failed access attempts.
    EEPROM Storage: Passwords and settings are stored persistently.

Hardware Requirements

    Arduino Board (e.g., Arduino Uno)
    Keypad (4x4 Matrix)
    LCD Display (16x2 with I2C Interface)
    Relay Module
    Basic Connecting Wires
    Breadboard (optional, for prototyping)

Software Requirements

    Arduino IDE for coding and uploading the code to the Arduino board.
    Git for version control.

Installation

    Clone the Repository:

    bash

    git clone https://github.com/tsrnc2/ASVAS.git

    Setup the Hardware:
        Connect the keypad, LCD, and relay module to the Arduino as per the circuit diagram (link to circuit diagram).
    Load the Code:
        Open the .ino file in Arduino IDE.
        Connect your Arduino board to your computer.
        Upload the code to the Arduino board.

Usage

    Set Master Password: On first run, set the master password.
    Set Guest Password: Use the master password to access the menu and set/change the guest password.
    Start Vehicle: Enter the guest password to simulate starting the vehicle.
    Clear EEPROM: Use the master password to access the menu and clear EEPROM for system reset.

Contributing

Contributions to the ASVAS project are welcome. Please follow the standard Git workflow - fork the repository, make changes, and submit a pull request.
License

MIT License
